README.md, before:

# <p align="center">FLEX: A Largescale Multimodal, Multiview Dataset for Learning Structured Representations for Fitness Action Quality Assessment</p>

### <p align="center">*Hao Yin, Lijun Gu, Paritosh Parmar, Lin Xu, Tianxiao Guo, Weiwei Fu, Yang Zhang, Tianyou Zheng*</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://haoyin116.github.io/FLEX_Dataset/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Project-Page-8A2BE2" alt="Project Page"></a>
  <!-- <a href="https://badges.toozhao.com/stats/01JVNNN837B0VMFVDGT55N9NR6" title="Get your own page views count badge on badges.toozhao.com"><img src="https://badges.toozhao.com/badges/01JVNNN837B0VMFVDGT55N9NR6/blue.svg" alt="Page Views Count"></a> -->
</p>


### Abstract
With the increasing awareness of health and the growing desire for aesthetic physique, fitness has become a prevailing trend. However, the potential risks associated with fitness training, especially with weight-loaded fitness actions, cannot be overlooked. Action Quality Assessment (AQA), a technology that quantifies the quality of human action and provides feedback, holds the potential to assist fitness enthusiasts of varying skill levels in achieving better training outcomes. Nevertheless, current AQA methodologies and datasets are limited to single-view competitive sports scenarios and RGB modality and lack professional assessment and guidance of fitness actions. To address this gap, we propose the FLEX dataset, the first multi-modal, multi-action, large-scale dataset that incorporates surface electromyography (sEMG) signals into AQA. FLEX utilizes high-precision MoCap to collect 20 different weight-loaded actions performed by 38 subjects across 3 different skill levels, containing 5 different views of the RGB video, 3D pose, sEMG, and physiological information. Additionally, FLEX incorporates knowledge graphs into AQA, constructing annotation rules in the form of penalty functions that map weight-loaded actions, action keysteps, error types, and feedback. We conducted various baseline methodologies on FLEX, demonstrating that multimodal data, multiview data, and fine-grained annotations significantly enhance model performance. FLEX not only advances AQA methodologies and datasets towards multi-modal and multi-action scenarios but also fosters the integration of artificial intelligence within the fitness domain.

---

### Key Words
action quality assessment, fitness, action understanding, video understanding

Commit message:

Update abstract for FLEX dataset in README
Revised the abstract to clarify the purpose and features of the FLEX dataset, emphasizing its multimodal capabilities and the integration of surface electromyography (sEMG) for Action Quality Assessment (AQA).

README.md, after:

# <p align="center">FLEX: A Largescale Multimodal, Multiview Dataset for Learning Structured Representations for Fitness Action Quality Assessment</p>

### <p align="center">*Hao Yin, Lijun Gu, Paritosh Parmar, Lin Xu, Tianxiao Guo, Weiwei Fu, Yang Zhang, Tianyou Zheng*</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://haoyin116.github.io/FLEX_Dataset/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Project-Page-8A2BE2" alt="Project Page"></a>
  <!-- <a href="https://badges.toozhao.com/stats/01JVNNN837B0VMFVDGT55N9NR6" title="Get your own page views count badge on badges.toozhao.com"><img src="https://badges.toozhao.com/badges/01JVNNN837B0VMFVDGT55N9NR6/blue.svg" alt="Page Views Count"></a> -->
</p>


### Abstract
Action Quality Assessment (AQA)—the task of quantifying how well an action is performed—has great potential for detecting errors in gym weight training, where accurate feedback is critical to prevent injuries and maximize gains. Existing AQA datasets, however, are limited to single-view competitive sports and RGB video, lacking multimodal signals and professional assessment of fitness actions. We introduce FLEX, the first large-scale, multimodal, multiview dataset for fitness AQA that incorporates surface electromyography (sEMG). FLEX contains over 7,500 multi-view recordings of 20 weight-loaded exercises performed by 38 subjects of diverse skill levels, with synchronized RGB video, 3D pose, sEMG, and physiological signals. Expert annotations are organized into a Fitness Knowledge Graph (FKG) linking actions, key steps, error types, and feedback, supporting a compositional scoring function for interpretable quality assessment. FLEX enables multimodal fusion, cross-modal prediction—including the novel Video→EMG task—and biomechanically oriented representation learning. Building on the FKG, we further introduce FLEX-VideoQA, a structured question–answering benchmark with hierarchical queries that drive cross-modal reasoning in vision–language models. Baseline experiments demonstrate that multimodal inputs, multi-view video, and fine-grained annotations significantly enhance AQA performance. FLEX thus advances AQA toward richer multimodal settings and provides a foundation for AI-powered fitness assessment and coaching.

---

### Key Words
action quality assessment, fitness, action understanding, video understanding
